[Index](../../../README.md) > [Making progress](README.md) > challenges


## First week challenges

The First challenge we had to face, something that's happen so often we don't think at it first. The very first thing was having a personal working environment working without any problems. That one fixed we faced our second challenge. Now we do need to have one common development environment. We fixed that problem with Docker, with we can simulate the same environment for the three of us. Then we, of course, face the challenge to understand and use new things, never used before. Like how to encrypt password in the database with Bcrypt encryption or how to use token authentification.

The principle plan we had to change was our time planning. All this unearthed challenges took us time to fix. that time was plan to develop the project so we had to do extra hours to take that time back. But extra hours lead to other new challenges, those one were not technical.

So the first nonthecnical challenge was our time management, between the not planned technical problem who were eating our time and the development of some part of the project who were tacking more time than planned. We often have to add extra hours of work to stay in what was planified. So far we where lucky enough to not change what was plan in the project, but start to think about it. That something which could happened again in the futur of the project development, asking ourself if we keep going the way we planned, or if we stop, go a litle backward and change some part of the plan to do something more reachable for us in therme of actual knowlege and the time we alowed to.
The other problems we had to face is the moral of each members of the team, sometimes the entire team, that interact with the capacity and the quality of the produced work. Beeing all ready and at 100% of our capacity at the same time is not something that easy.


## Second week challenges

On this second week of development the team had to face new challenges. Hopefully, nothing we couldn't overcome. The biggest challenge this week was dealing with "CORS" messages error. The first part to solve on that one, was to primary understand what CORS was and how it's working. Then with what we thought we understood, start to try to solve it. That wasn't easy at all. Cause CORS messages are not really the kind of clear messages giving information of what's going wrong. We first though the problem was from the web part, cause the API is tested well enough, to let us think that the probleme wasn't here. Wrong. After hours of search, we finally discovered that the browser before sending a request, send an OPTION request to validate the POST request we where trying to send to the API. But the OPTION request was blocked by the API, so the preflight request blocked, the browser at this turn, was blocking the request we where trying to make. That took us hours to understand. To finally add a small line of code in the API, accepting OPTION request without any restriction and the problem was solve. But it was the only one. the most anoying CORS error message we had was " the header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' is missing" so the request we were trying to send was blocked. Reading the message's error, totally mislead us. We though of course that the problem was from the header of the request, but nothing wrong was there. For us, nothing should block our request, cause the others we were doing was build the same way as this one and was working well. That took us all the week to finally find that the problem was from the API. Because we forgot for one of the entry point to take care of the strick slashes, the API was refusing our request and so we were resulting with that total misleading error message.

Again this week, we had to faces non-technicall problems. The most challenges of all was the stress. Stress caused by the first presentation of our project at the end end of the first week. After the prsentation we felt late on the development, even if we wasn't. But after an already improving first week. Our self confident wasn't at this top. Doupts, start to punch us in the face. So the stress started to eat every part of our mind, for each members of the team. So to react to that we spend, again, extra hours of work, to try to fix our imaginary delay on the development, induced by extern person of the project. Actually we where perfectly on time of what we planned, but peoples looking from outside of the project make us feel differently and our mind already shaked by the stress of the first week was just ready to over stress. So again, extra hours, lack of sleep, it was growing uncontrollably inside each of us. That of course bring us to conflicts inside the team. Plus, thinking already we were late, we had to right a novel for the school to explain our biggest challenge in this project. Something annoying, with total no interest for us. Westing time to explain what was hard for us, a paper useless and that probably no one will never read, improve again our stress and the feeling we were late. Hopefully, the team members are smart and not afraid of working 15 hours in a day. We fixed all of this by talking together. Make us remember that we know what we have to do, we've planned everything since few weeks. So we finaly understand that only us could now if we where late or not, at what point of the project we are actually standing. So we should not let us influence by people totaly outside of what we are doing. Only us are allowed to stress us. Ending the second week with more than we've plan first, put some stress down, the communication inside the team help us a lot to relax and just keep going to do what is plan. Even if I have to loose half a day doing anoying and useless writing that will interest no one instead of working on the real project. As a close team and with all the works down by every members of it, we've bringed back our stress to a bearable level.


---
###### 2021 - SurveyStorm
